.deepwork/jobs/deepwork_jobs/steps/clone_remote_job.md, before:

# Clone Remote Job

## Objective

Help the user install a DeepWork job from a remote GitHub repository and customize it for their project.

## Task

Guide the user through cloning a remote job from the DeepWork job library (or any GitHub repository), then assist with any required customization.

### Step 1: Understand the User's Request

1. **Get the job URL**
   - Ask the user for the GitHub URL of the job they want to install
   - The URL should point to a job directory, e.g.:
     - `https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs/spec_driven_development`
   - If they don't have a URL, point them to the job library: `https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs`

2. **Confirm the destination**
   - Jobs are installed to `.deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/`
   - If a job with the same name exists, warn the user it will be overwritten

### Step 2: Run the Install Script

Execute the `install_remote_job.sh` script:

```bash
.deepwork/jobs/deepwork_jobs/install_remote_job.sh <github_url>
```

**Script requirements:**
- `curl` - for downloading files
- `jq` - for parsing JSON responses from GitHub API

If the script fails due to missing dependencies, help the user install them:
- On macOS: `brew install jq`
- On Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt-get install jq`
- On other systems: Guide them to https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/

### Step 3: Review the Job's README

After installation, check for a readme file in the installed job directory:

1. **Read the readme**
   - Check for `readme.md` or `README.md` in `.deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/`
   - Look for sections about customization, configuration, or setup

2. **Identify required customizations**
   - Look for placeholders like `[docs_folder]`, `[project_name]`, etc.
   - Note any environment variables or configuration needed
   - Check for technology stack requirements

### Step 4: Apply Customizations

Work through any required customizations with the user:

1. **Replace placeholders**
   - Use find/replace to update placeholders throughout the job files
   - Example: Replace `[docs_folder]` with the actual documentation directory
   ```bash
   # Find all occurrences
   grep -r "\[docs_folder\]" .deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/

   # Replace throughout the job (preview first)
   find .deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/ -type f -name "*.md" -o -name "*.yml" | xargs sed -i 's/\[docs_folder\]/docs/g'
   ```

2. **Adjust for project conventions**
   - Review step instructions for any project-specific adjustments
   - Update paths, naming conventions, or workflow steps as needed

3. **Configure any required integrations**
   - Set up environment variables if needed
   - Configure any external services or tools

### Step 5: Update the README

After applying customizations:

1. **Remove customization instructions**
   - Delete or update the "REQUIRED CUSTOMIZATION" section in the readme
   - The readme should now describe the job as configured for this project

2. **Add project-specific notes**
   - Document any customizations made
   - Add notes about how this job fits into the project workflow

### Step 6: Sync and Test

1. **Run deepwork sync**
   ```bash
   deepwork sync
   ```

2. **Verify the job is available**
   - Check that slash commands are generated in `.claude/commands/`
   - Test that the job appears in command completion

3. **Relay reload instructions**
   - If skills were regenerated, tell the user to reload their environment
   - For Claude Code: "Type 'exit' then run 'claude --resume'"

## Output Format

After completing the installation and customization:

```
## Installation Summary

**Job:** <job_name>
**Source:** <github_url>
**Installed to:** .deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/

### Customizations Applied
- [List of customizations made]

### Available Commands
- /<job_name>.<step1> - <description>
- /<job_name>.<step2> - <description>
...

### Next Steps
- [Any remaining setup or first-use guidance]
```

## Quality Criteria

- Job files downloaded successfully to `.deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/`
- README reviewed for customization requirements
- All required placeholders replaced with project-specific values
- README updated to remove/update customization instructions
- `deepwork sync` run successfully
- User informed of available slash commands
- When all criteria are met, include `<promise>✓ Quality Criteria Met</promise>`

## Example Dialog

```
User: /deepwork_jobs.clone_remote_job

Claude: I'll help you install a remote DeepWork job.

What is the GitHub URL of the job you'd like to install?

If you're looking for jobs to install, you can browse the job library at:
https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs

User: https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs/spec_driven_development

Claude: I'll install the spec_driven_development job for you.

*Runs install_remote_job.sh script*

The job has been installed to `.deepwork/jobs/spec_driven_development/`.

Let me review the readme for any required customization...

I found that this job requires customization - there's a placeholder `[docs_folder]` that needs to be replaced with your project's documentation directory.

Where do you keep your documentation? (e.g., `docs/`, `documentation/`, or at the root)

User: We use docs/

Claude: I'll replace `[docs_folder]` with `docs` throughout the job files.

*Makes replacements*

I've updated 4 files with the correct documentation path. Let me also update the readme to remove the customization instructions since this is now configured for your project.

*Updates readme*

Now let me sync the job to generate slash commands.

*Runs deepwork sync*

## Installation Summary

**Job:** spec_driven_development
**Source:** https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs/spec_driven_development
**Installed to:** .deepwork/jobs/spec_driven_development/

### Customizations Applied
- Replaced `[docs_folder]` with `docs` in job.yml, constitution.md, plan.md
- Updated readme to remove customization instructions

### Available Commands
- /spec_driven_development.constitution - Establish project governance principles
- /spec_driven_development.specify - Create feature specification
- /spec_driven_development.clarify - Clarify specification details
- /spec_driven_development.plan - Generate technical plan
- /spec_driven_development.tasks - Generate task breakdown
- /spec_driven_development.implement - Execute implementation

To use the new commands, type 'exit' then run 'claude --resume'.

<promise>✓ Quality Criteria Met</promise>
```

Commit message:

refactor: Simplify clone_remote_job instructions
- Remove redundant description text about installing jobs
- Simplify Step 6 to just review .claude/skills instead of verbose reload instructions
- Remove Available Commands section from output format
- Update Next Steps to include workflow kick-off instructions

.deepwork/jobs/deepwork_jobs/steps/clone_remote_job.md, after:

# Clone Remote Job

## Objective

Help the user install a DeepWork job from a remote GitHub repository and customize it for their project.

## Task

Guide the user through cloning a remote job from the DeepWork job library (or any GitHub repository), then assist with any required customization.

### Step 1: Understand the User's Request

1. **Get the job URL**
   - Ask the user for the GitHub URL of the job they want to install
   - The URL should point to a job directory, e.g.:
     - `https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs/spec_driven_development`
   - If they don't have a URL, point them to the job library: `https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs`

2. **Confirm the destination**
   - Jobs are installed to `.deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/`
   - If a job with the same name exists, warn the user it will be overwritten

### Step 2: Run the Install Script

Execute the `install_remote_job.sh` script:

```bash
.deepwork/jobs/deepwork_jobs/install_remote_job.sh <github_url>
```

**Script requirements:**
- `curl` - for downloading files
- `jq` - for parsing JSON responses from GitHub API

If the script fails due to missing dependencies, help the user install them:
- On macOS: `brew install jq`
- On Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt-get install jq`
- On other systems: Guide them to https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/

### Step 3: Review the Job's README

After installation, check for a readme file in the installed job directory:

1. **Read the readme**
   - Check for `readme.md` or `README.md` in `.deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/`
   - Look for sections about customization, configuration, or setup

2. **Identify required customizations**
   - Look for placeholders like `[docs_folder]`, `[project_name]`, etc.
   - Note any environment variables or configuration needed
   - Check for technology stack requirements

### Step 4: Apply Customizations

Work through any required customizations with the user:

1. **Replace placeholders**
   - Use find/replace to update placeholders throughout the job files
   - Example: Replace `[docs_folder]` with the actual documentation directory
   ```bash
   # Find all occurrences
   grep -r "\[docs_folder\]" .deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/

   # Replace throughout the job (preview first)
   find .deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/ -type f -name "*.md" -o -name "*.yml" | xargs sed -i 's/\[docs_folder\]/docs/g'
   ```

2. **Adjust for project conventions**
   - Review step instructions for any project-specific adjustments
   - Update paths, naming conventions, or workflow steps as needed

3. **Configure any required integrations**
   - Set up environment variables if needed
   - Configure any external services or tools

### Step 5: Update the README

After applying customizations:

1. **Remove customization instructions**
   - Delete or update the "REQUIRED CUSTOMIZATION" section in the readme
   - The readme should now describe the job as configured for this project

2. **Add project-specific notes**
   - Document any customizations made
   - Add notes about how this job fits into the project workflow

### Step 6: Sync and Review

1. **Run deepwork sync**
   ```bash
   deepwork sync
   ```

2. **Review the new skills** in `.claude/skills/` to make sure they make sense

## Output Format

After completing the installation and customization:

```
## Installation Summary

**Job:** <job_name>
**Source:** <github_url>
**Installed to:** .deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/

### Customizations Applied
- [List of customizations made]

### Next Steps
- [Instructions on how to kick off the main job workflow, e.g., "Run /<job_name> to start"]
- [Any remaining setup or first-use guidance]
```

## Quality Criteria

- Job files downloaded successfully to `.deepwork/jobs/<job_name>/`
- README reviewed for customization requirements
- All required placeholders replaced with project-specific values
- README updated to remove/update customization instructions
- `deepwork sync` run successfully
- User informed how to kick off the job workflow
- When all criteria are met, include `<promise>✓ Quality Criteria Met</promise>`

## Example Dialog

```
User: /deepwork_jobs.clone_remote_job

Claude: I'll help you install a remote DeepWork job.

What is the GitHub URL of the job you'd like to install?

If you're looking for jobs to install, you can browse the job library at:
https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs

User: https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs/spec_driven_development

Claude: I'll install the spec_driven_development job for you.

*Runs install_remote_job.sh script*

The job has been installed to `.deepwork/jobs/spec_driven_development/`.

Let me review the readme for any required customization...

I found that this job requires customization - there's a placeholder `[docs_folder]` that needs to be replaced with your project's documentation directory.

Where do you keep your documentation? (e.g., `docs/`, `documentation/`, or at the root)

User: We use docs/

Claude: I'll replace `[docs_folder]` with `docs` throughout the job files.

*Makes replacements*

I've updated 4 files with the correct documentation path. Let me also update the readme to remove the customization instructions since this is now configured for your project.

*Updates readme*

Now let me sync the job to generate slash commands.

*Runs deepwork sync*

## Installation Summary

**Job:** spec_driven_development
**Source:** https://github.com/Unsupervisedcom/deepwork/tree/main/library/jobs/spec_driven_development
**Installed to:** .deepwork/jobs/spec_driven_development/

### Customizations Applied
- Replaced `[docs_folder]` with `docs` in job.yml, constitution.md, plan.md
- Updated readme to remove customization instructions

### Next Steps
- Run `/spec_driven_development` to start the workflow
- Type 'exit' then run 'claude --resume' to load the new skills

<promise>✓ Quality Criteria Met</promise>
```
