src/deepwork/standard_jobs/deepwork_jobs/steps/learn.md, before:

# Learn from Job Execution

## Objective

Think deeply about this task. Reflect on the current conversation to identify learnings from DeepWork job executions, improve job instructions with generalizable insights, and capture bespoke (run-specific) learnings in AGENTS.md files in the appropriate working folder.

## Task

Analyze the conversation history to extract learnings and improvements, then apply them appropriately:
- **Generalizable learnings** → Update job instruction files
- **Bespoke learnings** (specific to this run) → Add to AGENTS.md in working folder

### Step 1: Analyze Conversation for Job Executions

1. **Scan the conversation** for DeepWork slash commands that were run
   - Look for patterns like `/job_name.step_id`
   - Identify which jobs and steps were executed
   - Note the order of execution

2. **Identify the working folder**
   - Should be clear from conversation history where work was done
   - If unclear, run `git diff` to see where changes were made on the branch

3. **If no job was specified**, ask the user:
   - "Which DeepWork job would you like me to learn from?"
   - List available jobs from `.deepwork/jobs/`

### Step 2: Identify Points of Confusion and Inefficiency

Review the conversation for:

1. **Confusion signals**
   - Questions the agent asked that shouldn't have been necessary
   - Misunderstandings about what a step required
   - Incorrect outputs that needed correction
   - Ambiguous instructions that led to wrong interpretations

2. **Inefficiency signals**
   - Extra steps or iterations that were needed
   - Information that had to be repeated
   - Context that was missing from instructions
   - Dependencies that weren't clear

3. **Error patterns**
   - Failed validations and why they failed
   - Quality criteria that were misunderstood
   - Edge cases that weren't handled

4. **Success patterns**
   - What worked particularly well
   - Efficient approaches worth preserving
   - Good examples that could be added to instructions

### Step 3: Classify Learnings

For each learning identified, determine if it is:

**Generalizable** (should improve instructions):
- Would help ANY future run of this job
- Addresses unclear or missing guidance
- Fixes incorrect assumptions in instructions
- Adds helpful examples or context
- Examples:
  - "Step instructions should mention that X format is required"
  - "Quality criteria should include checking for Y"
  - "Add example of correct output format"

**doc spec-Related** (should improve doc spec files):
- Improvements to document quality criteria
- Changes to document structure or format
- Updated audience or frequency information
- Examples:
  - "The report should include a summary table"
  - "Quality criterion 'Visualization' needs clearer requirements"
  - "Documents need a section for action items"

**Bespoke** (should go in AGENTS.md):
- Specific to THIS project/codebase/run
- Depends on local conventions or structure
- References specific files or paths
- Would not apply to other uses of this job
- Examples:
  - "In this codebase, API endpoints are in `src/api/`"
  - "This project uses camelCase for function names"
  - "The main config file is at `config/settings.yml`"

### Step 3.5: Identify doc spec-Related Learnings

Review the conversation for doc spec-related improvements:

1. **Quality Criteria Changes**
   - Were any quality criteria unclear or insufficient?
   - Did the agent repeatedly fail certain criteria?
   - Are there new criteria that should be added?

2. **Document Structure Changes**
   - Did the user request different sections?
   - Were parts of the document format confusing?
   - Should the example document be updated?

3. **Metadata Updates**
   - Has the target audience changed?
   - Should frequency or path patterns be updated?

**Signals for doc spec improvements:**
- User asked for changes to document format
- Repeated validation failures on specific criteria
- Feedback about missing sections or information
- Changes to how documents are organized/stored

### Step 4: Update Job Instructions (Generalizable Learnings)

For each generalizable learning:

1. **Locate the instruction file**
   - Path: `.deepwork/jobs/[job_name]/steps/[step_id].md`

2. **Make targeted improvements**
   - Add missing context or clarification
   - Include helpful examples
   - Clarify ambiguous instructions
   - Update quality criteria if needed

3. **Keep instructions concise**
   - Avoid redundancy - don't repeat the same guidance in multiple places
   - Be direct - remove verbose explanations that don't add value
   - Prefer bullet points over paragraphs where appropriate

4. **Preserve instruction structure**
   - Keep existing sections (Objective, Task, Process, Output Format, Quality Criteria)
   - Add to appropriate sections rather than restructuring
   - Maintain consistency with other steps

5. **Track changes for changelog**
   - Note what was changed and why
   - Prepare changelog entry for job.yml

### Step 4b: Extract Shared Content into Referenced Files

Review all instruction files for the job and identify content that:
- Appears in multiple step instructions (duplicated)
- Is lengthy and could be extracted for clarity
- Would benefit from being maintained in one place

**Extract to shared files:**

1. **Create shared files** in `.deepwork/jobs/[job_name]/steps/shared/`
   - `conventions.md` - Coding/formatting conventions used across steps
   - `examples.md` - Common examples referenced by multiple steps
   - `schemas.md` - Data structures or formats used throughout

2. **Reference from instructions** using markdown includes or explicit references:
   ```markdown
   ## Conventions

   Follow the conventions defined in `shared/conventions.md`.
   ```

3. **Benefits of extraction:**
   - Single source of truth - update once, applies everywhere
   - Shorter instruction files - easier to read and maintain
   - Consistent guidance across steps

### Step 4.5: Update doc spec Files (doc spec-Related Learnings)

If doc spec-related learnings were identified:

1. **Locate the doc spec file**
   - Find doc spec references in job.yml outputs (look for `doc_spec: .deepwork/doc_specs/[doc_spec_name].md`)
   - doc spec files are at `.deepwork/doc_specs/[doc_spec_name].md`

2. **Update quality_criteria array**
   - Add new criteria with name and description
   - Modify existing criteria descriptions for clarity
   - Remove criteria that are no longer relevant

3. **Update example document**
   - Modify the markdown body to reflect structure changes
   - Ensure the example matches updated criteria

4. **Update metadata as needed**
   - target_audience: If audience has changed
   - frequency: If production cadence has changed
   - path_patterns: If storage location has changed

**Example doc spec update:**
```yaml
# Before
quality_criteria:
  - name: Visualization
    description: Include charts

# After
quality_criteria:
  - name: Visualization
    description: Include Mermaid.js charts showing spend breakdown by service and month-over-month trend
```

### Step 5: Create/Update AGENTS.md (Bespoke Learnings)

The AGENTS.md file captures project-specific knowledge that helps future agent runs.

1. **Determine the correct location**
   - Place AGENTS.md in the working folder where job outputs live
   - This ensures the knowledge is available when working in that context
   - If uncertain, place at the project root

2. **Use file references where possible**
   - Instead of duplicating information, reference source files
   - This keeps AGENTS.md in sync as the codebase evolves
   - Pattern: "See `path/to/file.ext` for [description]"

3. **AGENTS.md structure**: See `.deepwork/jobs/deepwork_jobs/templates/agents.md.template` for the standard format.

4. **Writing entries**
   - Be concise but specific
   - Always prefer file references over inline content
   - Use line numbers when referencing specific code: `file.ext:42`
   - Group related learnings together

### Step 6: Update Job Version and Changelog

If instruction files were modified:

1. **Bump version in job.yml**
   - Patch version (0.0.x) for instruction improvements
   - Minor version (0.x.0) if quality criteria changed

2. **Add changelog entry**
   ```yaml
   - version: "[new_version]"
     changes: "Improved [step] instructions based on execution learnings: [brief description]"
   ```

### Step 7: Sync and Relay Instructions

1. **Run deepwork sync** (if instructions were modified)
   ```bash
   deepwork sync
   ```

2. **If skills were regenerated**, look at the "To use the new skills" section in the `deepwork sync` output and **relay these exact reload instructions to the user** (e.g., "Type 'exit' then run 'claude --resume'" for Claude Code)

## File Reference Patterns

When adding entries to AGENTS.md, prefer these patterns:

**Good (references)**:
```markdown
- API endpoints follow REST conventions. See `src/api/routes.ts` for examples.
- Error handling pattern: See `src/utils/errors.ts:15-30`
- Configuration schema: Defined in `config/schema.json`
```

**Avoid (duplicating)**:
```markdown
- API endpoints should return JSON with this format: { status: ..., data: ... }
- Error handling should use try/catch with custom error classes
- Configuration requires these fields: name, version, ...
```

## Quality Criteria

- Conversation has been analyzed for job executions
- Points of confusion and inefficiency are identified
- Learnings are correctly classified (generalizable vs bespoke)
- Job instructions updated for generalizable improvements
- Instructions are concise - no redundancy or unnecessary verbosity
- Shared/lengthy content extracted into referenced files where appropriate
- AGENTS.md created/updated with bespoke learnings
- File references used instead of duplicating content
- AGENTS.md is in the correct working folder
- When all criteria are met, include `<promise>✓ Quality Criteria Met</promise>`

## Example Dialog

```
User: /deepwork_jobs.learn

Claude: I'll analyze this conversation for learnings from DeepWork job executions.

**Conversation Analysis**

I found the following job executions:
1. `/competitive_research.identify_competitors` - Completed
2. `/competitive_research.research_competitors` - Completed with 2 iterations
3. `/competitive_research.comparative_analysis` - Completed

**Identified Issues**

1. **Confusion in step 2**: The instructions didn't specify that competitor research should include pricing information. This caused an extra iteration.

2. **Missing context**: The agent had to ask about the industry focus, which should have been carried forward from step 1.

**Classification**

- Generalizable: Add pricing to research requirements in instructions
- Bespoke: This project focuses on B2B SaaS in the HR tech space

**Actions Taken**

1. Updated `.deepwork/jobs/competitive_research/steps/research_competitors.md`:
   - Added "Include pricing information (tiers, models, approximate ranges)" to research requirements
   - Added note about carrying forward industry context from previous step

2. Created `./competitive_research_output/AGENTS.md`:
   ```markdown
   # Project Context for Competitive Research

   ## Job-Specific Context

   ### competitive_research

   #### Industry Focus
   - Domain: B2B SaaS, HR Technology sector
   - See `identify_competitors_output.md` for market definition

   #### Competitors Identified
   - Reference: `competitor_list.md` for full details

   ## Last Updated
   - Date: 2024-01-15
   - From conversation about: Initial competitive analysis run
   ```

3. Updated job.yml version to 1.0.1 with changelog entry

4. Ran `deepwork sync`

**Summary**

Updated job instructions and created AGENTS.md with bespoke learnings. To get the updated skills, type 'exit' then run 'claude --resume'.
```

## Handling Edge Cases

**No job executions found**:
- Ask user which job they'd like to analyze
- Or offer to review available jobs

**Multiple jobs executed**:
- Analyze each job separately
- Create separate AGENTS.md entries or files as appropriate

**AGENTS.md already exists**:
- Read existing content
- Append new learnings to appropriate sections
- Update "Last Updated" section

**No issues found**:
- Document what worked well
- Consider if any successful patterns should be added to instructions as examples

**Sensitive information**:
- Never include secrets, credentials, or PII in AGENTS.md
- Reference config files instead of including values

Commit message:

Improve output path guidance and folder terminology in job prompts
- define.md: Add call-out that outputs should be in main repo, not dot-directories
- learn.md: Replace "working folder" with "deepest common folder that would contain all work on the topic"
- job_spec.md: Update output path examples to be more specific (e.g., competitive_research/[competitor_name]/report.md) and mention glob-match patterns

src/deepwork/standard_jobs/deepwork_jobs/steps/learn.md, after:

# Learn from Job Execution

## Objective

Think deeply about this task. Reflect on the current conversation to identify learnings from DeepWork job executions, improve job instructions with generalizable insights, and capture bespoke (run-specific) learnings in AGENTS.md files in the deepest common folder that would contain all work on the topic in the future.

## Task

Analyze the conversation history to extract learnings and improvements, then apply them appropriately:
- **Generalizable learnings** → Update job instruction files
- **Bespoke learnings** (specific to this run) → Add to AGENTS.md in the deepest common folder for the topic

### Step 1: Analyze Conversation for Job Executions

1. **Scan the conversation** for DeepWork slash commands that were run
   - Look for patterns like `/job_name.step_id`
   - Identify which jobs and steps were executed
   - Note the order of execution

2. **Identify the target folder**
   - This should be the deepest common folder that would contain all work on the topic in the future
   - Should be clear from conversation history where work was done
   - If unclear, run `git diff` to see where changes were made on the branch

3. **If no job was specified**, ask the user:
   - "Which DeepWork job would you like me to learn from?"
   - List available jobs from `.deepwork/jobs/`

### Step 2: Identify Points of Confusion and Inefficiency

Review the conversation for:

1. **Confusion signals**
   - Questions the agent asked that shouldn't have been necessary
   - Misunderstandings about what a step required
   - Incorrect outputs that needed correction
   - Ambiguous instructions that led to wrong interpretations

2. **Inefficiency signals**
   - Extra steps or iterations that were needed
   - Information that had to be repeated
   - Context that was missing from instructions
   - Dependencies that weren't clear

3. **Error patterns**
   - Failed validations and why they failed
   - Quality criteria that were misunderstood
   - Edge cases that weren't handled

4. **Success patterns**
   - What worked particularly well
   - Efficient approaches worth preserving
   - Good examples that could be added to instructions

### Step 3: Classify Learnings

For each learning identified, determine if it is:

**Generalizable** (should improve instructions):
- Would help ANY future run of this job
- Addresses unclear or missing guidance
- Fixes incorrect assumptions in instructions
- Adds helpful examples or context
- Examples:
  - "Step instructions should mention that X format is required"
  - "Quality criteria should include checking for Y"
  - "Add example of correct output format"

**doc spec-Related** (should improve doc spec files):
- Improvements to document quality criteria
- Changes to document structure or format
- Updated audience or frequency information
- Examples:
  - "The report should include a summary table"
  - "Quality criterion 'Visualization' needs clearer requirements"
  - "Documents need a section for action items"

**Bespoke** (should go in AGENTS.md):
- Specific to THIS project/codebase/run
- Depends on local conventions or structure
- References specific files or paths
- Would not apply to other uses of this job
- Examples:
  - "In this codebase, API endpoints are in `src/api/`"
  - "This project uses camelCase for function names"
  - "The main config file is at `config/settings.yml`"

### Step 3.5: Identify doc spec-Related Learnings

Review the conversation for doc spec-related improvements:

1. **Quality Criteria Changes**
   - Were any quality criteria unclear or insufficient?
   - Did the agent repeatedly fail certain criteria?
   - Are there new criteria that should be added?

2. **Document Structure Changes**
   - Did the user request different sections?
   - Were parts of the document format confusing?
   - Should the example document be updated?

3. **Metadata Updates**
   - Has the target audience changed?
   - Should frequency or path patterns be updated?

**Signals for doc spec improvements:**
- User asked for changes to document format
- Repeated validation failures on specific criteria
- Feedback about missing sections or information
- Changes to how documents are organized/stored

### Step 4: Update Job Instructions (Generalizable Learnings)

For each generalizable learning:

1. **Locate the instruction file**
   - Path: `.deepwork/jobs/[job_name]/steps/[step_id].md`

2. **Make targeted improvements**
   - Add missing context or clarification
   - Include helpful examples
   - Clarify ambiguous instructions
   - Update quality criteria if needed

3. **Keep instructions concise**
   - Avoid redundancy - don't repeat the same guidance in multiple places
   - Be direct - remove verbose explanations that don't add value
   - Prefer bullet points over paragraphs where appropriate

4. **Preserve instruction structure**
   - Keep existing sections (Objective, Task, Process, Output Format, Quality Criteria)
   - Add to appropriate sections rather than restructuring
   - Maintain consistency with other steps

5. **Track changes for changelog**
   - Note what was changed and why
   - Prepare changelog entry for job.yml

### Step 4b: Extract Shared Content into Referenced Files

Review all instruction files for the job and identify content that:
- Appears in multiple step instructions (duplicated)
- Is lengthy and could be extracted for clarity
- Would benefit from being maintained in one place

**Extract to shared files:**

1. **Create shared files** in `.deepwork/jobs/[job_name]/steps/shared/`
   - `conventions.md` - Coding/formatting conventions used across steps
   - `examples.md` - Common examples referenced by multiple steps
   - `schemas.md` - Data structures or formats used throughout

2. **Reference from instructions** using markdown includes or explicit references:
   ```markdown
   ## Conventions

   Follow the conventions defined in `shared/conventions.md`.
   ```

3. **Benefits of extraction:**
   - Single source of truth - update once, applies everywhere
   - Shorter instruction files - easier to read and maintain
   - Consistent guidance across steps

### Step 4.5: Update doc spec Files (doc spec-Related Learnings)

If doc spec-related learnings were identified:

1. **Locate the doc spec file**
   - Find doc spec references in job.yml outputs (look for `doc_spec: .deepwork/doc_specs/[doc_spec_name].md`)
   - doc spec files are at `.deepwork/doc_specs/[doc_spec_name].md`

2. **Update quality_criteria array**
   - Add new criteria with name and description
   - Modify existing criteria descriptions for clarity
   - Remove criteria that are no longer relevant

3. **Update example document**
   - Modify the markdown body to reflect structure changes
   - Ensure the example matches updated criteria

4. **Update metadata as needed**
   - target_audience: If audience has changed
   - frequency: If production cadence has changed
   - path_patterns: If storage location has changed

**Example doc spec update:**
```yaml
# Before
quality_criteria:
  - name: Visualization
    description: Include charts

# After
quality_criteria:
  - name: Visualization
    description: Include Mermaid.js charts showing spend breakdown by service and month-over-month trend
```

### Step 5: Create/Update AGENTS.md (Bespoke Learnings)

The AGENTS.md file captures project-specific knowledge that helps future agent runs.

1. **Determine the correct location**
   - Place AGENTS.md in the deepest common folder that would contain all work on the topic in the future
   - This ensures the knowledge is available when working in that context
   - If uncertain, place at the project root

2. **Use file references where possible**
   - Instead of duplicating information, reference source files
   - This keeps AGENTS.md in sync as the codebase evolves
   - Pattern: "See `path/to/file.ext` for [description]"

3. **AGENTS.md structure**: See `.deepwork/jobs/deepwork_jobs/templates/agents.md.template` for the standard format.

4. **Writing entries**
   - Be concise but specific
   - Always prefer file references over inline content
   - Use line numbers when referencing specific code: `file.ext:42`
   - Group related learnings together

### Step 6: Update Job Version and Changelog

If instruction files were modified:

1. **Bump version in job.yml**
   - Patch version (0.0.x) for instruction improvements
   - Minor version (0.x.0) if quality criteria changed

2. **Add changelog entry**
   ```yaml
   - version: "[new_version]"
     changes: "Improved [step] instructions based on execution learnings: [brief description]"
   ```

### Step 7: Sync and Relay Instructions

1. **Run deepwork sync** (if instructions were modified)
   ```bash
   deepwork sync
   ```

2. **If skills were regenerated**, look at the "To use the new skills" section in the `deepwork sync` output and **relay these exact reload instructions to the user** (e.g., "Type 'exit' then run 'claude --resume'" for Claude Code)

## File Reference Patterns

When adding entries to AGENTS.md, prefer these patterns:

**Good (references)**:
```markdown
- API endpoints follow REST conventions. See `src/api/routes.ts` for examples.
- Error handling pattern: See `src/utils/errors.ts:15-30`
- Configuration schema: Defined in `config/schema.json`
```

**Avoid (duplicating)**:
```markdown
- API endpoints should return JSON with this format: { status: ..., data: ... }
- Error handling should use try/catch with custom error classes
- Configuration requires these fields: name, version, ...
```

## Quality Criteria

- Conversation has been analyzed for job executions
- Points of confusion and inefficiency are identified
- Learnings are correctly classified (generalizable vs bespoke)
- Job instructions updated for generalizable improvements
- Instructions are concise - no redundancy or unnecessary verbosity
- Shared/lengthy content extracted into referenced files where appropriate
- AGENTS.md created/updated with bespoke learnings
- File references used instead of duplicating content
- AGENTS.md is in the correct folder (the deepest common folder for the topic)
- When all criteria are met, include `<promise>✓ Quality Criteria Met</promise>`

## Example Dialog

```
User: /deepwork_jobs.learn

Claude: I'll analyze this conversation for learnings from DeepWork job executions.

**Conversation Analysis**

I found the following job executions:
1. `/competitive_research.identify_competitors` - Completed
2. `/competitive_research.research_competitors` - Completed with 2 iterations
3. `/competitive_research.comparative_analysis` - Completed

**Identified Issues**

1. **Confusion in step 2**: The instructions didn't specify that competitor research should include pricing information. This caused an extra iteration.

2. **Missing context**: The agent had to ask about the industry focus, which should have been carried forward from step 1.

**Classification**

- Generalizable: Add pricing to research requirements in instructions
- Bespoke: This project focuses on B2B SaaS in the HR tech space

**Actions Taken**

1. Updated `.deepwork/jobs/competitive_research/steps/research_competitors.md`:
   - Added "Include pricing information (tiers, models, approximate ranges)" to research requirements
   - Added note about carrying forward industry context from previous step

2. Created `./competitive_research_output/AGENTS.md`:
   ```markdown
   # Project Context for Competitive Research

   ## Job-Specific Context

   ### competitive_research

   #### Industry Focus
   - Domain: B2B SaaS, HR Technology sector
   - See `identify_competitors_output.md` for market definition

   #### Competitors Identified
   - Reference: `competitor_list.md` for full details

   ## Last Updated
   - Date: 2024-01-15
   - From conversation about: Initial competitive analysis run
   ```

3. Updated job.yml version to 1.0.1 with changelog entry

4. Ran `deepwork sync`

**Summary**

Updated job instructions and created AGENTS.md with bespoke learnings. To get the updated skills, type 'exit' then run 'claude --resume'.
```

## Handling Edge Cases

**No job executions found**:
- Ask user which job they'd like to analyze
- Or offer to review available jobs

**Multiple jobs executed**:
- Analyze each job separately
- Create separate AGENTS.md entries or files as appropriate

**AGENTS.md already exists**:
- Read existing content
- Append new learnings to appropriate sections
- Update "Last Updated" section

**No issues found**:
- Document what worked well
- Consider if any successful patterns should be added to instructions as examples

**Sensitive information**:
- Never include secrets, credentials, or PII in AGENTS.md
- Reference config files instead of including values
