.deepwork/jobs/commit/steps/commit_and_push.md, before:

# Commit and Push

## Objective

Review the changed files with the user, create a commit with an appropriate message, and push to the remote repository.

## Task

Present the list of changed files for user review, ensure they match expectations, then commit and push the changes.

### Process

1. **Get the list of changed files**
   ```bash
   git status
   ```
   Also run `git diff --stat` to see a summary of changes.

2. **Present changes to the user for review**

   Use the AskUserQuestion tool to ask structured questions about the changes:

   Show the user:
   - List of modified files
   - List of new files
   - List of deleted files
   - Summary of changes (lines added/removed)

   Ask them to confirm:
   - "Do these changed files match your expectations?"
   - Provide options: "Yes, proceed with commit" / "No, let me review first" / "No, some files shouldn't be included"

3. **Handle user response**

   - If user confirms, proceed to commit
   - If user wants to review first, wait for them to come back
   - If user says some files shouldn't be included, ask which files to exclude and use `git restore` or `git checkout` to unstage them

4. **Stage all appropriate changes**
   ```bash
   git add -A
   ```
   Or stage specific files if user excluded some.

5. **View recent commit messages for style reference**
   ```bash
   git log --oneline -10
   ```

6. **Create the commit**

   Generate an appropriate commit message based on:
   - The changes made
   - The style of recent commits
   - Conventional commit format if the project uses it

   ```bash
   git commit -m "commit message here"
   ```

7. **Push to remote**
   ```bash
   git push
   ```
   If the branch has no upstream, use:
   ```bash
   git push -u origin HEAD
   ```

## Quality Criteria

- Changed files list was presented to user
- User explicitly confirmed the files match expectations
- Commit message follows project conventions
- Commit was created successfully
- Changes were pushed to remote
- When all criteria are met, include `<promise>✓ Quality Criteria Met</promise>` in your response

## Context

This is the final step of the commit workflow. It ensures the user has reviewed and approved the changes before they are committed and pushed. This prevents accidental commits of unintended files or changes.

Commit message:

Simplify commit job file review to agent self-verification
Changed the commit_and_push step to verify files match the agent's own
expectations instead of asking the user every time. This reduces unnecessary
interruptions while still catching unexpected changes.

.deepwork/jobs/commit/steps/commit_and_push.md, after:

# Commit and Push

## Objective

Review the changed files to verify they match the agent's expectations, create a commit with an appropriate message, and push to the remote repository.

## Task

Check the list of changed files against what was modified during this session, ensure they match expectations, then commit and push the changes.

### Process

1. **Get the list of changed files**
   ```bash
   git status
   ```
   Also run `git diff --stat` to see a summary of changes.

2. **Verify changes match expectations**

   Compare the changed files against what you modified during this session:
   - Do the modified files match what you edited?
   - Are there any unexpected new files?
   - Are there any unexpected deleted files?
   - Do the line counts seem reasonable for the changes you made?

   If changes match expectations, proceed to commit.

   If there are unexpected changes:
   - Investigate why (e.g., lint auto-fixes, generated files)
   - If they're legitimate side effects of your work, include them
   - If they're unrelated or shouldn't be committed, use `git restore` to discard them

3. **Stage all appropriate changes**
   ```bash
   git add -A
   ```
   Or stage specific files if some were excluded.

5. **View recent commit messages for style reference**
   ```bash
   git log --oneline -10
   ```

6. **Create the commit**

   Generate an appropriate commit message based on:
   - The changes made
   - The style of recent commits
   - Conventional commit format if the project uses it

   ```bash
   git commit -m "commit message here"
   ```

7. **Push to remote**
   ```bash
   git push
   ```
   If the branch has no upstream, use:
   ```bash
   git push -u origin HEAD
   ```

## Quality Criteria

- Changed files list was reviewed by the agent
- Files match what was modified during this session (or unexpected changes were investigated and handled)
- Commit message follows project conventions
- Commit was created successfully
- Changes were pushed to remote
- When all criteria are met, include `<promise>✓ Quality Criteria Met</promise>` in your response

## Context

This is the final step of the commit workflow. The agent verifies that the changed files match its own expectations from the work done during the session, then commits and pushes. This catches unexpected changes while avoiding unnecessary user interruptions.
