.deepwork/jobs/manual_tests/steps/run_not_fire_tests.md, before:

# Run Should-NOT-Fire Tests

## Objective

Run all "should NOT fire" tests in parallel sub-agents to verify that rules do not fire when their safety conditions are met.

## CRITICAL: Sub-Agent Requirement

**You MUST spawn sub-agents to make all file edits. DO NOT edit the test files yourself.**

Why sub-agents are required:
1. Sub-agents run in isolated contexts where file changes are detected
2. When a sub-agent completes, the Stop hook **automatically** evaluates rules
3. You (the main agent) observe whether hooks fired - you do NOT manually trigger them
4. If you edit files directly, the hooks won't fire because you're not a completing sub-agent

**NEVER manually run `echo '{}' | python -m deepwork.hooks.rules_check`** - this defeats the purpose of the test. Hooks must fire AUTOMATICALLY when sub-agents return.

## Task

Run all 8 "should NOT fire" tests in **parallel** sub-agents, then verify no blocking hooks fired.

### Process

1. **Launch parallel sub-agents for all "should NOT fire" tests**

   Use the Task tool to spawn **ALL of the following sub-agents in a SINGLE message** (parallel execution). Each sub-agent should use a fast model like haiku.

   **Sub-agent prompts (launch all 8 in parallel):**

   a. **Trigger/Safety test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_trigger_safety_mode/feature.py` to add a comment, AND edit `manual_tests/test_trigger_safety_mode/feature_doc.md` to add a note. Both files must be edited so the rule does NOT fire."

   b. **Set Mode test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_set_mode/module_source.py` to add a comment, AND edit `manual_tests/test_set_mode/module_test.py` to add a test comment. Both files must be edited so the rule does NOT fire."

   c. **Pair Mode (forward) test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_pair_mode/handler_trigger.py` to add a comment, AND edit `manual_tests/test_pair_mode/handler_expected.md` to add a note. Both files must be edited so the rule does NOT fire."

   d. **Pair Mode (reverse) test** - "Edit ONLY `manual_tests/test_pair_mode/handler_expected.md` to add a note. Only the expected file should be edited - this tests that the pair rule only fires in one direction."

   e. **Multi Safety test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_multi_safety/core.py` to add a comment, AND edit `manual_tests/test_multi_safety/core_safety_a.md` to add a note. Both files must be edited so the rule does NOT fire."

   f. **Infinite Block Prompt test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_infinite_block_prompt/dangerous.py` to add a comment. Include `<promise>I have verified this change is safe</promise>` in your response to bypass the infinite block."

   g. **Infinite Block Command test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_infinite_block_command/risky.py` to add a comment. Include `<promise>I have verified this change is safe</promise>` in your response to bypass the infinite block."

   h. **Created Mode test** - "Modify the EXISTING file `manual_tests/test_created_mode/existing.yml` by adding a comment. Do NOT create a new file - only modify the existing one. The created mode rule should NOT fire for modifications."

2. **Observe the results**

   When each sub-agent returns:
   - **If no blocking hook fired**: The test PASSED - the rule correctly did NOT fire
   - **If a blocking hook fired**: The test FAILED - investigate why the rule fired when it shouldn't have

   **Remember**: You are OBSERVING whether hooks fired automatically. Do NOT run any verification commands manually.

3. **Record the results and check for early termination**

   Track which tests passed and which failed:

   | Test Case | Should NOT Fire | Result |
   |-----------|:---------------:|:------:|
   | Trigger/Safety | Edit both files | |
   | Set Mode | Edit both files | |
   | Pair Mode (forward) | Edit both files | |
   | Pair Mode (reverse) | Edit expected only | |
   | Multi Safety | Edit both files | |
   | Infinite Block Prompt | Promise tag | |
   | Infinite Block Command | Promise tag | |
   | Created Mode | Modify existing | |

   **EARLY TERMINATION**: If **2 tests have failed**, immediately:
   1. Stop running any remaining tests
   2. Revert all changes and clear queue (see step 4)
   3. Report the results summary showing which tests passed/failed
   4. Do NOT proceed to the next step - the job halts here

4. **Revert all changes and clear queue**

   **IMPORTANT**: This step is MANDATORY and must run regardless of whether tests passed or failed.

   Run these commands to clean up:
   ```bash
   git reset HEAD manual_tests/ && git checkout -- manual_tests/ && rm -f manual_tests/test_created_mode/new_config.yml
   deepwork rules clear_queue
   ```

   **Why this command sequence**:
   - `git reset HEAD manual_tests/` - Unstages files from the index (rules_check uses `git add -A` which stages changes)
   - `git checkout -- manual_tests/` - Reverts working tree to match HEAD
   - `rm -f manual_tests/test_created_mode/new_config.yml` - Removes any new files created during tests
   - `deepwork rules clear_queue` - Clears the rules queue so rules can fire again

## Quality Criteria

- **Sub-agents spawned**: All 8 tests were run using the Task tool to spawn sub-agents - the main agent did NOT edit files directly
- **Parallel execution**: All 8 sub-agents were launched in a single message (parallel)
- **Hooks observed (not triggered)**: The main agent observed hook behavior without manually running rules_check
- **Early termination on 2 failures**: If 2 tests failed, testing halted immediately and results were reported
- **Changes reverted and queue cleared**: `git reset HEAD manual_tests/ && git checkout -- manual_tests/` and `deepwork rules clear_queue` was run after tests completed (regardless of pass/fail)
- When all criteria are met, include `<promise>✓ Quality Criteria Met</promise>` in your response

## Reference

See [test_reference.md](test_reference.md) for the complete test matrix and rule descriptions.

## Context

This step runs first and tests that rules correctly do NOT fire when safety conditions are met. The "should fire" tests run after these complete and the working directory is reverted.

Commit message:

Refactor manual_tests job: add subagent config, separate infinite block tests
- Add `model: "haiku"` and `max_turns: 5` config for all sub-agents to
  minimize cost/latency and prevent indefinite hangs
- Move infinite block tests (prompt and command) to dedicated serial step
  with both should-fire and should-not-fire scenarios
- Extract reset instructions to reusable reset.md step that other steps
  reference internally
- Reduce parallel tests from 8 to 6, serial tests from 8 to 6
- Bump version to 1.3.0

.deepwork/jobs/manual_tests/steps/run_not_fire_tests.md, after:

# Run Should-NOT-Fire Tests

## Objective

Run all "should NOT fire" tests in parallel sub-agents to verify that rules do not fire when their safety conditions are met.

## CRITICAL: Sub-Agent Requirement

**You MUST spawn sub-agents to make all file edits. DO NOT edit the test files yourself.**

Why sub-agents are required:
1. Sub-agents run in isolated contexts where file changes are detected
2. When a sub-agent completes, the Stop hook **automatically** evaluates rules
3. You (the main agent) observe whether hooks fired - you do NOT manually trigger them
4. If you edit files directly, the hooks won't fire because you're not a completing sub-agent

**NEVER manually run `echo '{}' | python -m deepwork.hooks.rules_check`** - this defeats the purpose of the test. Hooks must fire AUTOMATICALLY when sub-agents return.

## Task

Run all 6 "should NOT fire" tests in **parallel** sub-agents, then verify no blocking hooks fired.

### Process

1. **Launch parallel sub-agents for all "should NOT fire" tests**

   Use the Task tool to spawn **ALL of the following sub-agents in a SINGLE message** (parallel execution).

   **Sub-agent configuration for ALL sub-agents:**
   - `model: "haiku"` - Use the fast model to minimize cost and latency
   - `max_turns: 5` - Prevent sub-agents from hanging indefinitely

   **Sub-agent prompts (launch all 6 in parallel):**

   a. **Trigger/Safety test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_trigger_safety_mode/feature.py` to add a comment, AND edit `manual_tests/test_trigger_safety_mode/feature_doc.md` to add a note. Both files must be edited so the rule does NOT fire."

   b. **Set Mode test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_set_mode/module_source.py` to add a comment, AND edit `manual_tests/test_set_mode/module_test.py` to add a test comment. Both files must be edited so the rule does NOT fire."

   c. **Pair Mode (forward) test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_pair_mode/handler_trigger.py` to add a comment, AND edit `manual_tests/test_pair_mode/handler_expected.md` to add a note. Both files must be edited so the rule does NOT fire."

   d. **Pair Mode (reverse) test** - "Edit ONLY `manual_tests/test_pair_mode/handler_expected.md` to add a note. Only the expected file should be edited - this tests that the pair rule only fires in one direction."

   e. **Multi Safety test** - "Edit `manual_tests/test_multi_safety/core.py` to add a comment, AND edit `manual_tests/test_multi_safety/core_safety_a.md` to add a note. Both files must be edited so the rule does NOT fire."

   f. **Created Mode test** - "Modify the EXISTING file `manual_tests/test_created_mode/existing.yml` by adding a comment. Do NOT create a new file - only modify the existing one. The created mode rule should NOT fire for modifications."

2. **Observe the results**

   When each sub-agent returns:
   - **If no blocking hook fired**: The test PASSED - the rule correctly did NOT fire
   - **If a blocking hook fired**: The test FAILED - investigate why the rule fired when it shouldn't have

   **Remember**: You are OBSERVING whether hooks fired automatically. Do NOT run any verification commands manually.

3. **Record the results and check for early termination**

   Track which tests passed and which failed:

   | Test Case | Should NOT Fire | Result |
   |-----------|:---------------:|:------:|
   | Trigger/Safety | Edit both files | |
   | Set Mode | Edit both files | |
   | Pair Mode (forward) | Edit both files | |
   | Pair Mode (reverse) | Edit expected only | |
   | Multi Safety | Edit both files | |
   | Created Mode | Modify existing | |

   **EARLY TERMINATION**: If **2 tests have failed**, immediately:
   1. Stop running any remaining tests
   2. Reset (see step 4)
   3. Report the results summary showing which tests passed/failed
   4. Do NOT proceed to the next step - the job halts here

4. **Reset** (MANDATORY - call the reset step internally)

   **IMPORTANT**: This step is MANDATORY and must run regardless of whether tests passed or failed.

   Follow the reset step instructions. Run these commands to clean up:
   ```bash
   git reset HEAD manual_tests/ && git checkout -- manual_tests/ && rm -f manual_tests/test_created_mode/new_config.yml
   deepwork rules clear_queue
   ```

   See [reset.md](reset.md) for detailed explanation of these commands.

## Quality Criteria

- **Sub-agents spawned**: All 6 tests were run using the Task tool to spawn sub-agents - the main agent did NOT edit files directly
- **Correct sub-agent config**: All sub-agents used `model: "haiku"` and `max_turns: 5`
- **Parallel execution**: All 6 sub-agents were launched in a single message (parallel)
- **Hooks observed (not triggered)**: The main agent observed hook behavior without manually running rules_check
- **Early termination on 2 failures**: If 2 tests failed, testing halted immediately and results were reported
- **Reset performed**: Reset step was followed after tests completed (regardless of pass/fail)
- When all criteria are met, include `<promise>Quality Criteria Met</promise>` in your response

## Reference

See [test_reference.md](test_reference.md) for the complete test matrix and rule descriptions.

## Context

This step runs first and tests that rules correctly do NOT fire when safety conditions are met. The "should fire" tests run after these complete. Infinite block tests are handled in a separate step.
