manual_tests/README.md, before:

# Manual Hook/Rule Tests for Claude

This directory contains files designed to manually test different types of deepwork rules/hooks.
Each test must verify BOTH that the rule fires when it should AND does not fire when it shouldn't.

## How to Run These Tests

**The best way to run these tests is as sub-agents using a fast model (e.g., haiku).**

This approach works because:
1. Sub-agents run in isolated contexts where changes can be detected
2. The Stop hook evaluates rules when the sub-agent completes
3. Using a fast model keeps test iterations quick and cheap

After each sub-agent returns, run the hook to verify:
```bash
echo '{}' | python -m deepwork.hooks.rules_check
```

Then revert changes before the next test:
```bash
git checkout -- manual_tests/
```

## Test Matrix

Each test has two cases: one where the rule SHOULD fire, and one where it should NOT.

| Test | Should Fire | Should NOT Fire | Rule Name |
|------|-------------|-----------------|-----------|
| **Trigger/Safety** | Edit `.py` only | Edit `.py` AND `_doc.md` | Manual Test: Trigger Safety |
| **Set Mode** | Edit `_source.py` only | Edit `_source.py` AND `_test.py` | Manual Test: Set Mode |
| **Pair Mode** | Edit `_trigger.py` only | Edit `_trigger.py` AND `_expected.md` | Manual Test: Pair Mode |
| **Pair Mode (reverse)** | — | Edit `_expected.md` only (should NOT fire) | Manual Test: Pair Mode |
| **Command Action** | Edit `.txt` → log appended | — (always runs) | Manual Test: Command Action |
| **Multi Safety** | Edit `.py` only | Edit `.py` AND any safety file | Manual Test: Multi Safety |
| **Infinite Block Prompt** | Edit `.py` (always blocks) | Provide `<promise>` tag | Manual Test: Infinite Block Prompt |
| **Infinite Block Command** | Edit `.py` (command fails) | Provide `<promise>` tag | Manual Test: Infinite Block Command |
| **Created Mode** | Create NEW `.yml` file | Modify EXISTING `.yml` file | Manual Test: Created Mode |

## Test Results Tracking

| Test Case | Fires When Should | Does NOT Fire When Shouldn't |
|-----------|:-----------------:|:----------------------------:|
| Trigger/Safety | ☐ | ☐ |
| Set Mode | ☐ | ☐ |
| Pair Mode (forward) | ☐ | ☐ |
| Pair Mode (reverse - expected only) | — | ☐ |
| Command Action | ☐ | — |
| Multi Safety | ☐ | ☐ |
| Infinite Block Prompt | ☐ | ☐ |
| Infinite Block Command | ☐ | ☐ |
| Created Mode | ☐ | ☐ |

## Test Folders

| Folder | Rule Type | Description |
|--------|-----------|-------------|
| `test_trigger_safety_mode/` | Trigger/Safety | Basic conditional: fires unless safety file also edited |
| `test_set_mode/` | Set (Bidirectional) | Files must change together (either direction) |
| `test_pair_mode/` | Pair (Directional) | One-way: trigger requires expected, but not vice versa |
| `test_command_action/` | Command Action | Automatically runs command on file change |
| `test_multi_safety/` | Multiple Safety | Fires unless ANY of the safety files also edited |
| `test_infinite_block_prompt/` | Infinite Block (Prompt) | Always blocks with prompt; only promise can bypass |
| `test_infinite_block_command/` | Infinite Block (Command) | Command always fails; tests if promise skips command |
| `test_created_mode/` | Created (New Files Only) | Fires ONLY when NEW files are created, not when existing modified |

## Corresponding Rules

Rules are defined in `.deepwork/rules/`:
- `manual-test-trigger-safety.md`
- `manual-test-set-mode.md`
- `manual-test-pair-mode.md`
- `manual-test-command-action.md`
- `manual-test-multi-safety.md`
- `manual-test-infinite-block-prompt.md`
- `manual-test-infinite-block-command.md`
- `manual-test-created-mode.md`

Commit message:

Document parallel vs serial execution for manual tests
Clarify that "should NOT fire" tests can run in parallel since they
complete rule requirements, while "should fire" tests must run serially
to avoid cross-contamination from shared git state.

manual_tests/README.md, after:

# Manual Hook/Rule Tests for Claude

This directory contains files designed to manually test different types of deepwork rules/hooks.
Each test must verify BOTH that the rule fires when it should AND does not fire when it shouldn't.

## How to Run These Tests

**The best way to run these tests is as sub-agents using a fast model (e.g., haiku).**

This approach works because:
1. Sub-agents run in isolated contexts where changes can be detected
2. The Stop hook evaluates rules when the sub-agent completes
3. Using a fast model keeps test iterations quick and cheap

### Parallel vs Serial Execution

**Important:** All sub-agents share the same git working directory. This affects which tests can run in parallel.

**"Should NOT fire" tests CAN run in parallel:**
- These tests edit both trigger AND safety files (completing the rule requirements)
- Even though `git status` shows changes from all sub-agents, each rule only matches its own scoped file patterns
- Since the safety file is edited, the rule won't fire regardless of other changes
- No cross-contamination possible

**"Should fire" tests MUST run serially with git reverts between each:**
- These tests deliberately edit only the trigger file (not the safety)
- If multiple run in parallel, sub-agent A's hook will see changes from sub-agent B
- This causes cross-contamination: A gets blocked by rules triggered by B's changes
- Run one at a time, reverting between each test

### Verification Commands

After each sub-agent returns, run the hook to verify:
```bash
echo '{}' | python -m deepwork.hooks.rules_check
```

Then revert changes before the next test:
```bash
git checkout -- manual_tests/
```

## Test Matrix

Each test has two cases: one where the rule SHOULD fire, and one where it should NOT.

| Test | Should Fire | Should NOT Fire | Rule Name |
|------|-------------|-----------------|-----------|
| **Trigger/Safety** | Edit `.py` only | Edit `.py` AND `_doc.md` | Manual Test: Trigger Safety |
| **Set Mode** | Edit `_source.py` only | Edit `_source.py` AND `_test.py` | Manual Test: Set Mode |
| **Pair Mode** | Edit `_trigger.py` only | Edit `_trigger.py` AND `_expected.md` | Manual Test: Pair Mode |
| **Pair Mode (reverse)** | — | Edit `_expected.md` only (should NOT fire) | Manual Test: Pair Mode |
| **Command Action** | Edit `.txt` → log appended | — (always runs) | Manual Test: Command Action |
| **Multi Safety** | Edit `.py` only | Edit `.py` AND any safety file | Manual Test: Multi Safety |
| **Infinite Block Prompt** | Edit `.py` (always blocks) | Provide `<promise>` tag | Manual Test: Infinite Block Prompt |
| **Infinite Block Command** | Edit `.py` (command fails) | Provide `<promise>` tag | Manual Test: Infinite Block Command |
| **Created Mode** | Create NEW `.yml` file | Modify EXISTING `.yml` file | Manual Test: Created Mode |

## Test Results Tracking

| Test Case | Fires When Should | Does NOT Fire When Shouldn't |
|-----------|:-----------------:|:----------------------------:|
| Trigger/Safety | ☐ | ☐ |
| Set Mode | ☐ | ☐ |
| Pair Mode (forward) | ☐ | ☐ |
| Pair Mode (reverse - expected only) | — | ☐ |
| Command Action | ☐ | — |
| Multi Safety | ☐ | ☐ |
| Infinite Block Prompt | ☐ | ☐ |
| Infinite Block Command | ☐ | ☐ |
| Created Mode | ☐ | ☐ |

## Test Folders

| Folder | Rule Type | Description |
|--------|-----------|-------------|
| `test_trigger_safety_mode/` | Trigger/Safety | Basic conditional: fires unless safety file also edited |
| `test_set_mode/` | Set (Bidirectional) | Files must change together (either direction) |
| `test_pair_mode/` | Pair (Directional) | One-way: trigger requires expected, but not vice versa |
| `test_command_action/` | Command Action | Automatically runs command on file change |
| `test_multi_safety/` | Multiple Safety | Fires unless ANY of the safety files also edited |
| `test_infinite_block_prompt/` | Infinite Block (Prompt) | Always blocks with prompt; only promise can bypass |
| `test_infinite_block_command/` | Infinite Block (Command) | Command always fails; tests if promise skips command |
| `test_created_mode/` | Created (New Files Only) | Fires ONLY when NEW files are created, not when existing modified |

## Corresponding Rules

Rules are defined in `.deepwork/rules/`:
- `manual-test-trigger-safety.md`
- `manual-test-set-mode.md`
- `manual-test-pair-mode.md`
- `manual-test-command-action.md`
- `manual-test-multi-safety.md`
- `manual-test-infinite-block-prompt.md`
- `manual-test-infinite-block-command.md`
- `manual-test-created-mode.md`
